Add Azure PowerShell error handling tips to How to use Azure CLI effectively (usability) (#2764)
MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-cli: docs-ref-conceptual/use-cli-effectively.md

| **AZURE_CONFIG_DIR**           | The global directory for configuration files, logs, and telemetry. If unspecified, this value defaults to `~/.azure.` |
| **AZURE_EXTENSION_DIR**        | The directory containing extension installations. If unspecified, this value defaults to the `cliextensions` subdirectory within the global configuration directory. |

## Error handling for Azure CLI in PowerShell

> You can run Azure CLI commands in PowerShell, as described in [Choose the right Azure command-line tool](choose-the-right-azure-command-line-tool.md). If you do, be sure you understand Azure CLI error handling in PowerShell. In particular, you can't use the `try` and `catch` keywords.

Reviewer: There is nothing that prevents you from using `try` and `catch`. The only issue is that the Azure CLI does not create an exception that can be caught by PowerShell. You can only use the `$?` variable.

In a script you could use the `throw` keyword. So you can do something like this:

```powershell
try {
    az group create --name MyResourceGroup 
    if ($? -eq $False) {
        throw 'Group create failed.'
    }
}
catch {
    'Handle error here'
}
```

An alternative is to use the `$?` automatic variable. This variable contains the status of the most recent command. If the previous command fails, `$?` has the value of `$False`. For more information, see [about_Automatic_Variables](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_automatic_variables).

The follow example shows how this automatic variable can work for error handling:

```powershell

> az group create --name MyResourceGroup 
> if ($? -eq $False) 
> {
> Write-Error "Error creating storage account"
> }

Reviewer: This is the preferred style.

```suggestion
az group create --name MyResourceGroup 
if ($? -eq $False) {
    Write-Error "Error creating storage account"
}
```

```

The first command lacks the required `--location` parameter, so it fails. The conditional finds that `$?` is false and writes an error.

By default, PowerShell catches only terminating errors. You can change this behavior by using the `$ErrorActionPreference` global variable.

```powershell
$ErrorActionPreference = "Stop"
```

After testing, be sure to change the value back:

```powershell
$ErrorActionPreference = "Continue"
```

> For more information about PowerShell error handling, see [Everything you wanted to know about exceptions](/powershell/scripting/learn/deep-dives/everything-about-exceptions).

Reviewer: I am not sure about the relevance of this information. What does this have to do with handling Azure CLI errors? These settings only affect PowerShell errors. The `Write-Error` cmdlet does not create a terminating error that would be caught by setting the preference to `Stop`.

If you are using the `try/catch` scenario I showed in the previous comment, then you need to set the preference to `Stop` so that PowerShell can handle the error.

| **AZURE_CONFIG_DIR**           | The global directory for configuration files, logs, and telemetry. If unspecified, this value defaults to `~/.azure.` |
| **AZURE_EXTENSION_DIR**        | The directory containing extension installations. If unspecified, this value defaults to the `cliextensions` subdirectory within the global configuration directory. |

## Error handling for Azure CLI in PowerShell

You can run Azure CLI commands in PowerShell, as described in [Choose the right Azure command-line tool](choose-the-right-azure-command-line-tool.md). If you do, be sure you understand Azure CLI error handling in PowerShell. In particular, Azure CLI doesn't create exceptions for PowerShell to catch.

An alternative is to use the `$?` automatic variable. This variable contains the status of the most recent command. If the previous command fails, `$?` has the value of `$False`. For more information, see [about_Automatic_Variables](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_automatic_variables).

The follow example shows how this automatic variable can work for error handling:

```powershell

> az group create --name MyResourceGroup 
>     if ($? -eq $False) {
>         Write-Error "Error creating storage account"
>     }

Reviewer: This command creates a resource group not a storage account. Also, You should not indent the `if` block.

```suggestion
az group create --name MyResourceGroup 
if ($? -eq $false) {
    Write-Error "Error creating resource group."
}
```

```

> The first command lacks the required `--location` parameter, so it fails. The conditional finds that `$?` is false and writes an error.
> 
> You can use the `try` and `catch` keywords. Use `throw` to create an exception for the `try` block to catch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `az` command fails because it is missing the required `--location` parameter. The conditional statement finds that `$?` is false and writes an error.

If you want to use the `try` and `catch` keywords, you can use `throw` to create an exception for the `try` block to catch:
```

```powershell
$ErrorActionPreference = "Stop"
try {
    az group create --name MyResourceGroup 

>     if ($? -eq $False) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if ($? -eq $false) {
```

        throw 'Group create failed.'
    }
}
catch {

>     Write-Error "Error creating storage account"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Write-Error "Error creating the resource group."
```

}
$ErrorActionPreference = "Continue"
```

By default, PowerShell catches only terminating errors. This example sets the `$ErrorActionPreference` global variable to `Stop` so PowerShell can handle the error.

> The conditional tests the `$?` variable to see whether the command fails. If so, the `throw` keyword creates an exception to catch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conditional statement tests the `$?` variable to see if the previous command failed. If so, the `throw` keyword creates an exception to catch. The `catch` block can be used to write an error message or handle the error.
```
